README.md, before:

# UnDrift 🔬🪛

This reository includes a collection of functions written in Python to correct the drift in time-lapse microscopy images.
The drift between consecutive frames is calculated by applying the 'phase_cross_correlation' function from the Scikit-image library (https://scikit-image.org/docs/0.25.x/api/skimage.registration.html#skimage.registration.phase_cross_correlation).
Then the cumulative drift is calculated. The use can choose to smooth the cumulative drift by applying:
1. A moving average
2. A polynomial function of nth degree
3. A univariate smoothing spline

The smoothed or raw cumulative drifts are used to adjust the maximum possible cropping frame around the microscopy images.
An example of the drift correction is shown below. The uncorrected movie is on the left, and the drif-corrected time-lapse movie is shown on the right:
![movie_example.gif](https://github.com/alexSysBio/image_drift_correction/blob/main/correction_example.gif)

An example of using the functions provided in the repository is included in the 'drift_correction_user_guide.py' script.

Commit message:

Enhance drift correction example in README
Clarified the example of drift correction with additional details about the uncorrected movie.

README.md, after:

# UnDrift 🔬🪛

This reository includes a collection of functions written in Python to correct the drift in time-lapse microscopy images.
The drift between consecutive frames is calculated by applying the 'phase_cross_correlation' function from the Scikit-image library (https://scikit-image.org/docs/0.25.x/api/skimage.registration.html#skimage.registration.phase_cross_correlation).
Then the cumulative drift is calculated. The use can choose to smooth the cumulative drift by applying:
1. A moving average
2. A polynomial function of nth degree
3. A univariate smoothing spline

The smoothed or raw cumulative drifts are used to adjust the maximum possible cropping frame around the microscopy images.
An example of the drift correction is shown below. The uncorrected movie is on the left (simulated drifts sampled from a Gaussian distribution with a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 10 pixels), and the drif-corrected time-lapse movie is shown on the right:
![movie_example.gif](https://github.com/alexSysBio/image_drift_correction/blob/main/correction_example.gif)

An example of using the functions provided in the repository is included in the 'drift_correction_user_guide.py' script.
